# Background-Noise-Cancellation-using-LMS-and-DWT-algorithms.
This project ultimately focuses on noise cancellation of ECG signals and mainly the real time signals. Here the tool I used is MATLAB Simulink. The detailed explanation of  my project is included and equivalent project files were pushed for your work.


Our environment consists of different types of noises such as crowd noises, fan noise, exhibition noise, car noise etc., which affects the original clear speech signal ( human voice) by interfering with our voices and makes it as speech with creepy and clumsy noises (human voice + noise) in the receiver end. Therefore, receiver will not receive the information clearly. For overcoming these, the noise cancellation was introduced to get clear speech signal from the transmitter. For cancelling noise adaptive filters are used. In this project we used adaptive ECG signal analysis deals with the major problem of removing the noise from ECG signal. Implementation of adaptive filter removes noise from the signal in a better way. In this project, Least Mean Square algorithm is employed for noise cancellation. First, we given ECG signal as speech and Power line interference which is combination of both sine and cosine that is generated in 50Hz is given as noise from the database. Initially we designed structure for 4 and 8 tap adaptive LMS filter and compared its noise removal ability by deploying SNR structure and comparing the SNR value. This is the basic technique for noise cancellation using adaptive filters. Existing noise cancellation method includes a reference input as noise to process it. We proposed a method which generates the reference input from the raw speech input . This is achieved by using Discrete Wavelet Transform. This DWT structure is used to generate the reference noise by using wavelet decomposition method. All the above-mentioned structure were designed using MATLAB Simulink.  For this project initially we used ECG signal and PLI noise and at second stage we derived result for real time speech and noise also which is .wav file. We imported the data from the database for real time and ECG signal and included in the MATLAB workspace. After importing we connect it with the Simulink block for noise cancellation. Therefore, at last in this project we built structure for 4 taps,  8 tap and 16 taps with reference signal and without reference signal and compared the SNR value and interpreted. 
